What are the upsides of AI?

They are good at processing large quantities of data,
and predicting the responses based on the patterns they have observed.
(As mentioned below) It's ability to "chat" about various topics and find answers
is an emergent property of it's learning, meaning it wasn't intended or specifically trained to do
that exact thing, but its training tought it how to do it regardless.


Scanning & Processing 

How do LLM's work?

An algorithm that predicts what word comes next based off a response, based on which words are most likely.
Although it, doesn't 
It is NON-DETERMINISTIC, meaning, that the exact same prompt will provide different responses,

Training data needs to be MASSIVE, thousands and thousands of paramters that "alter" the AI's thought process.
Training an AI means tuning it's parameters slowly to match "correct" peices of data until the AI's choose the correct options more often,
in essence, they are being trained to "mimic" the correct human text and "fill in the gap" with their most accurate, "human-like" response.

We don't WHY AI works in the sense that it's able to do tasks that we did not "directly train it for". 
Like summarizing text, asking about a problem with a specific call

"Attention is All You Need" introduces transformer model from google

---
Algorithm: A set of rules that a machine can follow to learn how to do a task.
Artificial intelligence: This refers to the general concept of machines acting in a way that simulates or mimics human intelligence. AI can have a variety of features, such as human-like communication or decision making.
Autonomous: A machine is described as autonomous if it can perform its task or tasks without needing human intervention.
Backward chaining: A method where the model starts with the desired output and works in reverse to find data that might support it.
Bias: Assumptions made by a model that simplify the process of learning to do its assigned task. Most supervised machine learning models perform better with low , as these assumptions can negatively affect results.
Big data: Datasets that are too large or complex to be used by traditional data processing applications.
Bounding box: Commonly used in image or video tagging, this is an imaginary box drawn on visual information. The contents of the box are labeled to help a model recognize it as a distinct type of object.
Chatbot: A chatbot is program that is designed to communicate with people through text or voice commands in a way that mimics human-to-human conversation.
Cognitive computing: This is effectively another way to say artificial intelligence. It’s used by marketing teams at some companies to avoid the science fiction aura that sometimes surrounds AI.
Computational learning theory: A field within artificial intelligence that is primarily concerned with creating and analyzing machine learning algorithms.
Corpus: A large dataset of written or spoken material that can be used to train a machine to perform linguistic tasks.
Data mining: The process of analyzing datasets in order to discover new patterns that might improve the model.
Data science: Drawing from statistics, computer science and information science, this interdisciplinary field aims to use a variety of scientific methods, processes and systems to solve problems involving data.
Dataset: A collection of related data points, usually with a uniform order and tags.
Deep learning: A function of artificial intelligence that imitates the human brain by learning from the way data is structured, rather than from an algorithm that’s programmed to do one specific thing.
Entity annotation: The process of labeling unstructured sentences with information so that a machine can read them. This could involve labeling all people, organizations and locations in a document, for example.
Entity extraction: An umbrella term referring to the process of adding structure to data so that a machine can read it. Entity extraction may be done by humans or by a machine learning model.
Forward chaining: A method in which a machine must work from a problem to find a potential solution. By analyzing a range of hypotheses, the AI must determine those that are relevant to the problem.
General AI: AI that could successfully do any intellectual task that can be done by any human being. This is sometimes referred to as strong AI, although they aren’t entirely equivalent terms.
Hyperparameter: Occasionally used interchangeably with parameter, although the terms have some subtle differences. Hyperparameters are values that affect the way your model learns. They are usually set manually outside the model.
Intent: Commonly used in training data for chatbots and other natural language processing tasks, this is a type of label that defines the purpose or goal of what is said. For example, the intent for the phrase “turn the volume down” could be “decrease volume”.
Label: A part of training data that identifies the desired output for that particular piece of data.
Linguistic annotation: Tagging a dataset of sentences with the subject of each sentence, ready for some form of analysis or assessment. Common uses for linguistically annotated data include sentiment analysis and natural language processing.
Machine intelligence: An umbrella term for various types of learning algorithms, including machine learning and deep learning.
Machine learning: This subset of AI is particularly focused on developing algorithms that will help machines to learn and change in response to new data, without the help of a human being.
Machine translation: The translation of text by an algorithm, independent of any human involvement.
Model: A broad term referring to the product of AI training, created by running a machine learning algorithm on training data.
Neural network: Also called a neural net, a neural network is a computer system designed to function like the human brain. Although researchers are still working on creating a machine model of the human brain, existing can perform many tasks involving speech, vision and board game strategy.
Natural language generation (NLG): This refers to the process by which a machine turns structured data into text or speech that humans can understand. Essentially, NLG is concerned with what a machine writes or says as the end part of the communication process.
Natural language processing (NLP): The umbrella term for any machine’s ability to perform conversational tasks, such as recognizing what is said to it, understanding the intended meaning and responding intelligibly.
Natural language understanding (NLU): As a subset of natural language processing, natural language understanding deals with helping machines to recognize the intended meaning of language — taking into account its subtle nuances and any grammatical errors.
Overfitting: An important AI term, overfitting is a symptom of machine learning training in which an algorithm is only able to work on or identify specific examples present in the training data. A working model should be able to use the general trends behind the data to work on new examples.
Parameter: A variable inside the model that helps it to make predictions. A parameter’s value can be estimated using data and they are usually not set by the person running the model.
Pattern recognition: The distinction between pattern recognition and machine learning is often blurry, but this field is basically concerned with finding trends and patterns in data.
Predictive analytics: By combining data mining and machine learning, this type of analytics is built to forecast what will happen within a given timeframe based on historical data and trends.
Python: A popular programming language used for general programming.
Reinforcement learning: A method of teaching AI that sets a goal without specific metrics, encouraging the model to test different scenarios rather than find a single answer. Based on human feedback, the model can then manipulate the next scenario to get better results.
Semantic annotation: Tagging different search queries or products with the goal of improving the relevance of a search engine.
Sentiment analysis: The process of identifying and categorizing opinions in a piece of text, often with the goal of determining the writer’s attitude towards something.
Strong AI: This field of research is focused on developing AI that is equal to the human mind when it comes to ability. General AI is a similar term often used interchangeably.
Supervised learning: This is a type of machine learning where structured datasets, with inputs and labels, are used to train and develop an algorithm.
Test data: The unlabeled data used to check that a machine learning model is able to perform its assigned task.
Training data: This refers to all of the data used during the process of training a machine learning algorithm, as well as the specific dataset used for training rather than testing.
Transfer learning: This method of learning involves spending time teaching a machine to do a related task, then allowing it to return to its original work with improved accuracy. One potential example of this is taking a model that analyzes sentiment in product reviews and asking it to analyze tweets for a week.
Turing test: Named after Alan Turing, famed mathematician, computer scientist and logician, this tests a machine’s ability to pass for a human, particularly in the fields of language and behavior. After being graded by a human, the machine passes if its output is indistinguishable from that of human participant’s.
Unsupervised learning: This is a form of training where the algorithm is asked to make inferences from datasets that don’t contain labels. These inferences are what help it to learn.
Validation data: Structured like training data with an input and labels, this data is used to test a recently trained model against new data and to analyze performance, with a particular focus on checking for overfitting.
Variance: The amount that the intended function of a machine learning model changes while it’s being trained. Despite being flexible, models with high variance are prone to overfitting and low predictive accuracy because they are reliant on their training data.
Variation: Also called queries or utterances, these work in tandem with intents for natural language processing. The variation is what a person might say to achieve a certain purpose or goal. For example, if the intent is “pay by credit card,” the variation might be “I’d like to pay by card, please.”
Weak AI: Also called narrow AI, this is a model that has a set range of skills and focuses on one particular set of tasks. Most AI currently in use is weak AI, unable to learn or perform tasks outside of its specialist skill set.

Installed: New Programs, Docker, VM, Node.js, PyCharm

What is FOS?

Free Open Source software, software that can be accessed, copied, modified in it's entirety by users. 
New GenAI models are NOT FOS. Since they rely on their owner's servers and databases. It's not FOS because you can't openly get data on the AI models, even downloading it locally doesn't give you full control over the AI.

"You're Holding it Wrong!!!"

Prompt engineering isn't the silver bullet to kill all flaws in your ai workflows, but it can
help you see better results more often. It improves consistency, but inaccuracies are inevitable

T C R E I

Task:
 	Persona: Who is the AI supposed to be?
	Do NOT make monolithic tasks, split it up into different goals
Context: 
	Explain context to avoid assumptions, biases, let it know everything surrounding
	the task
	
Reference: 
	Provide data, examples, specific ideas, ideas from past prompts that the AI should imitate

Evaluate: 
	Review the output, does it meet your requirements.
Iterate:
	Feed the errors back to the AI and tell it what didn't meet requirements
	See if you can refine the prompt to prevent future errors

(Task: Context: Reference:) -- ( Evaluate: Iterate: )
   Your Input Here ^^		AI's Input Here ^^


"Make a diagram of the weather cycle"

My refined prompt: 

You are a 5th grade teacher and need to teach your students about the weather cycle. Make a circular flow chart that includes all of these steps in the water cycle: Precipitation,  Surface Runoff, Groundwater,  Transpiration, Evaporation,  and Condensation.  Each of these steps should be written in large text, with smaller text below as a short, one sentance explaination of the step in the water cycle. Each step should point to eachother with arrows in a circular design, in the order they occur. Make the visuals and descriptions age appropriate, not overly wordy or confusing. Output the diagram in a valid text format that i could edit it.


AI Scheduling?

Using the AI to build out your employee schedule *could* be useful, but unless you can do a better job making a generic document in sheets, I think it's better for the AI to do the busywork of formatting a blank schedule for you, then filling it out yourself with the temperamental data.

My Prompt for Messy Data Project: 

Hello! I am an employer for a company with many employees, looking to sort and uniformly format the raw data we recieved from our company survey. 

The answers we collected from the survey fall into six different unique categories. Employee ID, Name, Department, Years at the Company, Favorite Food, and Hire Date.

I want you to re-structure this survey's non-homogenus data into neat, identically capitalized, punctuated, and formatted responses. Make the responses uniform by refitting them, but don't replace the original message with something else. Please follow the following rules for each category of data:

Employee ID: Each employee id should begin with a capital "E", followed by a single hyphen, then, their unique three digit employee number.

Name: The name of the employee should be capitalized at the beginning of their first name and last name. any other random capitalization needs to be corrected. Structure the names as their last name followed by a comma, space, then their last name. If they do not have a last name, just include their first name without punctuation.

Department: Make sure all departments are formatted correctly in their verbose title. No abreviations. If you are unsure what an abreviated title stands for, look for another employee who shares the non-abreviated department position and correct the abreviation. Again, all titles should start with a capital letter and avoid random puncuation/capitalization.

Years at the Company: For years at the company, the format should be a number, space, and then the word "Years" or "Year" if there is only one. Correct any typed out words for numbers into their corresponding symbols. If this category is "null", their Years at the Company should say "Less Than A Year".

Favorite Food: These responses can be nearly anything, but they must follow the rules of proper capitalization, and only ONE word. Remove any uncessary details about the food other than the noun describing it. 

Hire Date: Due to an internal server error, exact hire dates are missing for most employees.  For employees who DO have their date of hiring, please abreviate it to only include the month and the year, Please use the proper capitalized titles of the months of the year, no numbers or abreviations. For employees who do not have an exact hire date, estimate just the year they were hired by subtracting the "Years at the Company" from the current year as of the survey, 2025.

The raw survey data is attached in a csv. Please reformat it following all of the category rules, and return the new copy to me. Thank you.


Text to Speech: Using a text based prompt to create audio
Voice Cloning: Using audio training data to imitate a voice, 
Text to Video: Creating a video based off of a text prompt
Image to Video: Creating a video out of a static image, 



Editing my base prompt for AI resume

POST 1: https://www.dice.com/job-detail/a0a9b6a9-98c4-42b0-b502-896b396076c6

POST 2: https://www.dice.com/job-detail/b8345cd4-7a1a-4112-b83f-83504a03d65b

POST 3: https://www.dice.com/job-detail/a8d948a6-6a67-4200-aee9-85e3ce2f5b92

------ TEMPLATE ------

You are an expert resume writer and career coach. I need you to tailor my
resume to a specific job posting while
maintaining accuracy and authenticity.
MASTER RESUME:

JOB POSTING:

INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Analyze the job requirements and identify the most important skills and
experiences
2. Reorder and emphasize relevant experiences from my master resume
3. Adjust bullet points to highlight achievements that match the job
requirements
4. Incorporate relevant keywords naturally throughout the resume
5. Maintain all factual information - do not fabricate experiences
6. Keep the same overall structure and length
Please provide the tailored resume and explain the key changes you made.

--- TEMPLATE ---
--- MY EDIT ---

You will by my client's professional resume writer, your goal is to take my client's generalized professional resume, and re-tailor it to a specific job posting while maintaining accuracy and authenticity.

MASTER RESUME:

JOB POSTING:

INSTRUCTIONS:

Task #1 Analysis of Job Post:

#1 Part A: Your task is to skim the job posting and find the top skills, talents, or pre-requisite experience/knowledge that the employer requires for this position. 

#1 Part B: Then, skim the job posting again to create a sub-list of the same criteria as #1 Part A, that aren't necessary for the job, but are preferred.

#1 Part C: Skim the job posting for the job description, and make a list of the key responsibilities and tasks my client would need to be able to fulfill to hold this position.

#1 Part D: Skim the job posting now to create a list of the Company's Culture values. Look for specific keywords that describe the company culture and desired personality attributes of candidates.

Task #2 Refine the Resume:

Reminder: In this step, you will be examining and cross-comparing my client's information provided in the resume attached to the job posting. Be sure to be diligent and do not conflate, assume, or infer anything not written out verbatim on my client's resume. Accuracy is key.

#2 Part A: Examine my client's resume, and use cross-comparison to find any of my client's listed relevant NECESSARY skills/experience from #1 Part A, re-order the skills in my client's resume to highlight any matching skills/experience. Also, compare my client's resume to see if any of their skills/experience would match with the job's key responsibilities from Part #1 C. These skills should be given TOP priority when re-ordering my clients resume.

#2 Part B: Re-examine my client's resume, and use cross-comparison to find any of my client's listed PREFERRED relevant skills/experience from #1 Part B, and re-order the skills in my client's resume to highlight any matching skills/experience. ( Please Note: When creating the new ordered hierarchy of skills, REQUIRED skills take precedent over PREFERRED skills in order.)

#2 Part C: Re-examine my client's resume, and use cross-comparison to find any of my client's listed values & personal attributes from Part #1 D. Rephrase wording in my client's personal descriptions that matches with the company values to highlight them.

Task #3 Refine

Reminder: In this step, you will NOT be re-ordering, but you MAY rephrase the client's resume. This step is purely for polish and double checking your work.

#3 Part A: Fact check the new re-ordered resume with the original resume attached. Are there any inconsistencies? Any misleading exaggerations? Correct these and fix any gaps that this process would create in our resume, re-ordering is allowed in this step only in the case of an explicit factual inaccuracy.

#3 Part B: Please be direct and correct any "theatrical" or "exaggerative" tone errors to a more professional and "matter-of-fact" type of speech. Keep the language concise, do not use too many descriptive words. The ideal is that the client's new resume matches the same approximate length as the old one.

#3 Part C: Format all lists with simple bullets and use proper professional formatting to match the original shape and structure in the original attached client's resume. Do not add any additional media, only simple geometric lines and shapes.

Once you have completed all Tasks 1 - 3, Reply by sharing a brief summary of the actions you took to complete the tasks according to the instructions I've given, and attach the new resume to your response in the same file type as the original. Thank you.


--- Cover Prompt ---

( Using previous context )
For the final part of this task, I need you to create three unique, compelling cover letters. For each  of the three new tailored-resumes:

INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Draft the cover letter to professional and concise, with one page maximum.
2. In a first-person tone, state that the client is looking to apply for the position they are posting.
3. Highlight the client's key skills and knowledge that makes them qualified for the positions expectations and responsibilities.
4. Use a professional tone and formal business letter structure.
5. Cross compare the letter to the resume before finishing and be sure no skills were exaggerated, inferred, assumed, or invented.
6. The letter should express the client's enthusiasm for the role and the company.

Please provide the tailored cover letter.

